We have covered a number of text processing steps.
Let's summarize what a typical workflow looks like.
Starting with a plain text sentence,
you first normalize it by converting to lowercase and removing punctuation,
and then you split it up into words using a tokenizer.
Next, you can remove stop words to reduce the vocabulary you have to deal with.
Depending on your application,
you may then choose to apply a combination of stemming and
lemmatization to reduce words to the root or stem form.
It is common to apply both,
lemmatization first, and then stemming.
This procedure converts a natural language sentence into
a sequence of normalized tokens which you can use for further analysis.